# geostat-SAS
Geostatistical assessment of the highly structured spatial pattern of salt-affected soils

Authors: Gábor Szatmári and László Pásztor, E-mail: szatmari@rissac.hu, Affiliation: Institute for Soil Sciences, Centre for Agricultural Research, Budapest, Hungary

An important characteristic of salt-affected soils (SAS) is their structured spatial pattern, which pose a real challenge for geostatistical mapping. This is because most geostatistical applications rely on the multivariate normal distribution, which maximizes spatial disorder. Our objective was to propose two geostatistical approaches, namely the indicator approach and multiple-point geostatistics (MPS), which can overcome this in theory. Indicator kriging (IK) and single normal equation simulation (SNESIM) were tested in a pilot area (190.4 km2), Hungary, where a digitized legacy soil map was available. The upper half of the legacy map was retained as training image in order to retrieve multiple-point statistics for SNESIM, whereas the lower half was used as study area and it was virtually sampled by spatial coverage sampling with various sample sizes for SAS mapping. Our study illustrated that both techniques can capture and assess the highly structured SAS pattern. Although the validation showed that IK slightly outperformed SNESIM, the MPS approach can provide a new perspective on the use of legacy soil maps in digital soil mapping. It was also found that the predictive performance of both techniques cannot be arbitrarily improved by solely increasing the number of sampling points, which needs further investigation.
